AsyncAPI Demo (#7611)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/asyncapi/custom-message-types/sample.md

---
title: AsyncAPI with custom message conventions
summary: How to generate an AsyncAPI schema document from NServiceBus with custom message conventions
reviewed: 2025-08-13
component: Core
related:
- samples/asyncapi/simple
---

This sample demonstrates how to generate an [AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/en) schema document from NServiceBus endpoints using [Neuroglia.AsyncApi](https://github.com/asyncapi/net-sdk) in two different hosting environments:

- [.NET Generic Host](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/generic-host)
- [ASP.NET Core Web Host](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/host/web-host)

It extends the [simple AsyncAPI sample](/samples/asyncapi/simple) by differentiating between event types (i.e. published vs subscribed) and showing how an event can be published by one endpoint and subscribed to by another without using the same concrete class to define the event, therefore decoupling the systems from each other.

> > [!NOTE]
> > This is a sample only and should not be used in production as is.
> 

Author: Yes but I think there's a difference between showing a sample of a supported product to something that is not part of our platform. How about this:

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> AsyncAPI integration is not an officially supported feature of NServiceBus, and this example is for demonstration purposes only.

```

### Subscriber project

#### Setup AsyncAPI

The project uses the `EnableAsyncApiSupport` extension method to allow it to subscribe to published events from the [WebAPI](#code-walk-through-webapi-project) and [Generic host](#code-walk-through-generic-host-project) projects using its own implementation of the event classes.

snippet: SubscriberEnableAsyncAPIOnNSB

#### Define subscribed to events

It defines its own concrete event classes and uses the `SubscribedEvent` attribute to tell NServiceBus which event they represent.

The `FirstSubscribedToEvent` class is marked as representing the `SomeNamespace.FirstEvent` event.

snippet: SubscriberFirstEvent

The `SecondSubscribedToEvent` class is marked as representing the `SomeNamespace.SecondEvent` event.

snippet: SubscriberSecondEvent

Note that the defined events do not need to match all the properties defined in the published events, but contain only those that they are interested in.

## Running the sample

When running the solution with Visual Studio, three applications will start automatically.

> [!NOTE]

> > If using a different IDE or the .NET CLI, start each project individually to run all three applications.

Author: Is there harm in having it there to guide the user if need be?
